Contest post for system sounds (#416)
haiku/website: content/blog/bitigchi/2020-09-11-system-sound-contest.md

+++
type = "blog"
title = "Contest for System Sounds"
author = "bitigchi"
date = "2020-09-06 13:00:00+03:00"
tags = ["sound", "contest"]
+++

> It wouldn't be wrong to say that, Haiku is a unique operating system. It takes its roots from BeOS, the OS everyone envied back in the day, and Haiku follows its footsteps in the most loyal way possible. What could be better than complementing this unique operating system with a unique set of system sounds?

Reviewer: "in the most loyal way possible."
Isn't that a bit over the top, even for this extremely enthusiastic 1st paragraph? :)

Author: Updated.

We are looking for contestants (amateur, professional, enthusiast) to produce system sound effects for Haiku. Specifically sounds for:

## Sound Events

**Errors:**

- Beep
- Error notification

**Notifications:**

- Important notification
- Information notification
- Progress notification

**Key/mouse events:**

- Key down
- Key repeat
- Key up
- Keymap switch
- Mouse down
- Mouse up

**Window events:**

- Window activated
- Window close
- Window minimised
- Window open
- Window restored
- Window zoomed

In addition to these above, a nice soothing **startup chime**. :)

## What to consider

> - All sound events except the startup chime should be around/between 1-2 seconds. It **should** not exceed 2 seconds. For startup chime, the limit is 5 seconds.

Reviewer: I think most sounds can (and really should!) be shorter than 1 second. So, I'd say "...should not exceed 2 seconds." A 5 second startup sound is much too long IMO, but as an upper limit, I guess it's OK.

Author: Updated.

- They should be non-intrusive. Distorted tunes are not welcome.
- Expanding on "haiku" and related themes are encouraged.

> - Entries need to be in WAV format (44,100 Hz, 16 bits ps).

Author: "Per sample"

> - Entries should include a note that the work is licensed under MIT or a similar licence.

Reviewer: https://creativecommons.org/choose/ has a simple license chooser. I think, we should go with _Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International_
It's important that we can modify those sounds.

Author: Updated.

## Deadline

Deadline for the contest is February 2021; we would like to ship these with Beta3 for users to experience them and give feedback.

Currently Haiku does not support sound themes, but the idea is to use a couple of entries as sound themes later on, contest winner being the default sound theme for Haiku.

## How to participate

> Join [this thread]() on Haiku Forums, and attach your work in a permanent link with the licence! Winner and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Join [this thread]() on Haiku Forums, and attach your work in a permanent link with the licence!
```

> Join [this thread]() on Haiku Forums, and attach your work in a permanent link with the licence!

Author: > > How to get the files? E-mail?
> 
> I'd say people should send a PM with a permanent link to their contest entry. I volunteer to be such a contact. We should name a couple of fall backs.

I also volunteer. Anyone third?

## Deadline

Deadline for the contest is December 1st, 2020; we would like to ship these with Beta3 for users to experience them and give feedback.

Currently Haiku does not support sound themes, but the idea is to use a couple of entries as sound themes later on, with the contest winner being the default sound theme.

## How to participate

> Send an e-mail to humdinger (gmail) com and bitigchi (me) com with your work attached through a permanent link. Entries and news regarding the contest will be published on [this Haiku Forums thread](). The thread will not be open for public posting, and will be used for publishing purposes only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send an e-mail to humdingerb (gmail) com and bitigchi (me) com with a link to your zipped up work. Entries and news regarding the contest will be published on [this Haiku Forums thread](). The thread will not be open for public posting, and will be used for publishing purposes only.
```

I want to make sure that people don't attach their sounds to the mail, but just link to wher they've uploaded the stuff.

> Winner will be announced on the abovementioned thread and Haiku general mailing list. Modifications will be accepted until November 27th, 2020.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The winner will be announced on the above-mentioned thread and the Haiku general mailing list. Modifications will be accepted until November 27th, 2020.
```
